Dataware house project Steps

File based approach
  STEP 1 - create database.
  STEP 2 - create schema (bronze,silver,gold).
  
  Bronze
  STEP 4 - create tables according to source system (DDL) in bronze schema.
  STEP 5 - write a bulk insert procedure to load data from source files to bronze schema tables.
  STEP 3 - create data lineage digram.
  
  STEP 6 - explore the data (document the understanding of data by creating the integration model and visualise the data)
  STEP 7 - create tables (DDL) in the silver schema. Same as bronze (but you can add metadata column like created date, updated date, source, file location etc)
  STEP 8 - now find the data quality issue in bronze.
    quality check :
      check null and duplicate in primary key. primary key should be unique and not null.
      check for unwanted spaces in string. 
      check the consistency of values in low cardinality coloumns.
      check the date column if it contain  valid date  not number or varchar
  STEP 9 - if all issue resolved the insert transform data in to silver.<table>
  STEP 10 - run all the quality checks on silver.<table>
  STEP 11 - update the lineage diagram for silver layer.

  Gold
  STEP 12 - Explore and understand the business objects
  STEP 13 - drawing conceptual data model , logical data model , physical data model if required for gold layer.
  STEP 14 - for datawarehouse and business inteligence we have two approches for data modeling
    star schema (dimensions* and facts**)
    snoflake schema (dimensions subdimensions and facts)
  *dimensions : descriptive information that give context to data(usually with lots of text data in tables). gives answer to who what where.
  **facts : quantative information  represent an event(usually tables with multiple ids, dates, many numbers). gives answer to How much how many.
  STEP 15 - aim is to build new data model with new business objects
  STEP 16 - analyse the original data model that give us understanding (use the integration model diagram made earlier)
  STEP 17 - analyse the tables and try to give give lebels that belongs to same object like product_info and product_category should be lebeled as product(business object).
  STEP 18 - Once business object discovered then start doing data integration according for each business object one by one.
  STEP 19 - in integration check uniqueness of id after joining the tables. 
  STEP 20 - same data coloumn integration. 
  STEP 21 - give friendly names to columns.
  STEP 22 - position the coloumn logically.
  STEP 23 - identify the business object as dimension or fact if it is dimension give the table a primary key(surrogate keys) apart coming from source system (it is good practice) surrogate keys should be end with *_key as  per naming convension.
  STEP 24 - finally create the view in gold layer.
  STEP 25 - perform quality checks on gold view.
  STEP 26 - repeate the same process for all identified business object.
  STEP 27 - for the fact object table  use dimensions's surrrogate key instead of ids to connect fact to dimensions, replace all the keys from fact with surrogate keys and rename with friendly names as per naming conventions.
  STEP 28 - last step after making all the dimesions conncted to fact do the final check on forign keys's integrity
  STEP 29 - create/draw a new data model with new dimension and fact (refer image (Data Mart))
  STEP 30 - prepare the data catloge
  STEP 31 - update the data linege document.

EDA project
Aim of an EDA project to get the understanding about the data. exploring the data like how many rows, how big is data etc no serious business question answered here but it might prepare you for that.
  STEP 1 - Database exploration explore all object in database explore all column in database. [INFORMATION_SCHEMA]
  STEP 2 - Dimension exploration, like identifying unique values for each dimension help us to grouping or segmenting the data. [DISTINCT]
  STEP 3 - Date exploration like to find date boundries in our data and scope of data and timespan. [MIN/MAX, DATEDIFFF]
  STEP 4 - Measure exploration like finding big numbers for measures. use of aggregation functions. [SUM, AVG, COUNT]




